README.md, before:


# Contrails

Contrails is an [ATProto Feed Generator](https://github.com/bluesky-social/feed-generator) backed by
[Cloudflare Workers](https://workers.cloudflare.com) and [Bluesky Search](https://bsky.app/search).

Fork or copy the repository and edit `CONFIG.md` to define your feed generator.

Deploy right from [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions) to [Cloudflare Workers](https://workers.cloudflare.com).

The current release is [**0.2.0**](https://github.com/jcsalterego/Contrails/releases/latest).

## Requirements

- Bluesky Social account
- GitHub account ([Sign up](https://github.com/signup) or [Login](https://github.com/login))
- Cloudflare account ([Sign up](https://dash.cloudflare.com/sign-up) or [Login](https://dash.cloudflare.com/login/))
- A moderate-to-high tolerance for adventure

## Installation & Configuration: The Short Version

1. Create a Cloudflare Worker
2. Create a Cloudflare API Token (the Edit Workers template is fine)
3. Create a Bluesky App Password
4. Fork this repository
5. In your fork's **Settings > Secrets and variables > Actions**, set the following:
  * Variable: `BLUESKY_HANDLE`
  * Variable: `CLOUDFLARE_ACCOUNT_ID`
  * Variable: `CLOUDFLARE_WORKER_NAME`
  * Secret: `BLUESKY_APP_PASSWORD`
  * Secret: `CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN`
6. Edit [CONFIG.md](CONFIG.md) in your fork
7. Go to **Actions** > **1. Check Requirements**, select **Run Workflow**, refresh and wait for completion
8. Go to **Actions** > **2. Deploy to Cloudflare**, select **Run Workflow**, refresh and wait for completion
9. Go to **Actions** > **3. Publish Feed Generator**, select **Run Workflow**, refresh and wait for completion
10. Visit the `BLUESKY_HANDLE` profile, e.g. [https://bsky.app/profile/jcsalterego.bsky.social](https://bsky.app/profile/jcsalterego.bsky.social) and then the Feeds tab

The longer (and incomplete) instructions can be found in [INSTALL.md](INSTALL.md).

## Upgrading

In the event you'd like to pull in the latest changes into a fork of Contrails, GitHub has great documentation here:
[GitHub Docs: Syncing a fork](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/working-with-forks/syncing-a-fork)

## Changelog

### 0.2.0

* Pagination

### 0.1.0

* New search term type: Users

### 0.0.4

* New search term type: Pinned posts

### 0.0.3

* Multiple feed support
* Ignore blockquotes in CONFIG.md (to allow comments).

### 0.0.2

* Delete Feed Generator workflow

### 0.0.1

* Initial Release

## Etymology

![](docs/thecloud.png)

_Ed. Note: Bluesky Search is now called [Palomar](https://github.com/bluesky-social/indigo/tree/main/cmd/palomar)._

## Publishing Diagram

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    subgraph Bluesky
        PDS["PDS"]
    end
    subgraph GitHub
        subgraph MD_Config["CONFIG.md"]
            searchTerms
        end
        subgraph CloudflareDeploy["Cloudflare Deploy"]
            Worker_JS
            CloudflareApiToken("CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN")
            CloudflareAccountID("CLOUDFLARE_ACCOUNT_ID")
            CloudflareWorkerName("CLOUDFLARE_WORKER_NAME")
        end
        subgraph BlueskyDeploy["Bluesky Deploy"]
            PublishFeedGenerator
            BlueskyHandle("BLUESKY_HANDLE")
            BlueskyAppPassword("BLUESKY_APP_PASSWORD")
        end
        MD_Config --> Worker_JS["worker.js"]
        MD_Config --> PublishFeedGenerator["publishFeedGenerator.ts"]
    end
    subgraph "Cloudflare Worker"
        CloudflareWorker[worker.js]
    end
    CloudflareDeploy -->|Deploy to Cloudflare| CloudflareWorker
    BlueskyDeploy -->|Publish Feed Generator| PDS
```

## Query Diagram

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    actor CoffeeTeaLover
    participant Bluesky
    participant Cloudflare as Cloudflare Worker
    participant Bluesky Search
    CoffeeTeaLover->>+Bluesky: get Coffee&Tea custom feed
    Bluesky->>+Cloudflare: get Coffee&Tea custom feed
    Cloudflare->>+Bluesky Search: search "coffee" and "tea"
    Bluesky Search->>+Cloudflare: posts matching "coffee" and "tea"
    Cloudflare->>+Bluesky: IDs of posts matching "coffee" and "tea"
    Bluesky->>+CoffeeTeaLover: posts for Coffee&Tea custom feed
```

## LICENSE

[2-Clause BSD](LICENSE)

Commit message:

Add missing mention of Safe Mode; add more notes for upgrading

README.md, after:


# Contrails

Contrails is an [ATProto Feed Generator](https://github.com/bluesky-social/feed-generator) backed by
[Cloudflare Workers](https://workers.cloudflare.com) and [Bluesky Search](https://bsky.app/search).

Fork or copy the repository and edit `CONFIG.md` to define your feed generator.

Deploy right from [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions) to [Cloudflare Workers](https://workers.cloudflare.com).

The current release is [**0.2.0**](https://github.com/jcsalterego/Contrails/releases/latest).

## Requirements

- Bluesky Social account
- GitHub account ([Sign up](https://github.com/signup) or [Login](https://github.com/login))
- Cloudflare account ([Sign up](https://dash.cloudflare.com/sign-up) or [Login](https://dash.cloudflare.com/login/))
- A moderate-to-high tolerance for adventure

## Installation & Configuration: The Short Version

1. Create a Cloudflare Worker
2. Create a Cloudflare API Token (the Edit Workers template is fine)
3. Create a Bluesky App Password
4. Fork this repository
5. In your fork's **Settings > Secrets and variables > Actions**, set the following:
  * Variable: `BLUESKY_HANDLE`
  * Variable: `CLOUDFLARE_ACCOUNT_ID`
  * Variable: `CLOUDFLARE_WORKER_NAME`
  * Secret: `BLUESKY_APP_PASSWORD`
  * Secret: `CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN`
6. Edit [CONFIG.md](CONFIG.md) in your fork
7. Go to **Actions** > **1. Check Requirements**, select **Run Workflow**, refresh and wait for completion
8. Go to **Actions** > **2. Deploy to Cloudflare**, select **Run Workflow**, refresh and wait for completion
9. Go to **Actions** > **3. Publish Feed Generator**, select **Run Workflow**, refresh and wait for completion
10. Visit the `BLUESKY_HANDLE` profile, e.g. [https://bsky.app/profile/jcsalterego.bsky.social](https://bsky.app/profile/jcsalterego.bsky.social) and then the Feeds tab

The longer (and incomplete) instructions can be found in [INSTALL.md](INSTALL.md).

## Upgrading

The first step before any major upgrade is to make a copy of your markdown config file. Your best bet is to save it in a separate directory such as `backup_configs/`, or you will have to remember to set `isEnabled` to false so it doesn't get picked up as a live config!

In the event you'd like to pull in the latest changes into a fork of Contrails, GitHub has great documentation here:
[GitHub Docs: Syncing a fork](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/working-with-forks/syncing-a-fork)

## Changelog

### 0.2.0

* Pagination
* Safe Mode

### 0.1.0

* New search term type: Users

### 0.0.4

* New search term type: Pinned posts

### 0.0.3

* Multiple feed support
* Ignore blockquotes in CONFIG.md (to allow comments).

### 0.0.2

* Delete Feed Generator workflow

### 0.0.1

* Initial Release

## Etymology

![](docs/thecloud.png)

_Ed. Note: Bluesky Search is now called [Palomar](https://github.com/bluesky-social/indigo/tree/main/cmd/palomar)._

## Publishing Diagram

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    subgraph Bluesky
        PDS["PDS"]
    end
    subgraph GitHub
        subgraph MD_Config["CONFIG.md"]
            searchTerms
        end
        subgraph CloudflareDeploy["Cloudflare Deploy"]
            Worker_JS
            CloudflareApiToken("CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN")
            CloudflareAccountID("CLOUDFLARE_ACCOUNT_ID")
            CloudflareWorkerName("CLOUDFLARE_WORKER_NAME")
        end
        subgraph BlueskyDeploy["Bluesky Deploy"]
            PublishFeedGenerator
            BlueskyHandle("BLUESKY_HANDLE")
            BlueskyAppPassword("BLUESKY_APP_PASSWORD")
        end
        MD_Config --> Worker_JS["worker.js"]
        MD_Config --> PublishFeedGenerator["publishFeedGenerator.ts"]
    end
    subgraph "Cloudflare Worker"
        CloudflareWorker[worker.js]
    end
    CloudflareDeploy -->|Deploy to Cloudflare| CloudflareWorker
    BlueskyDeploy -->|Publish Feed Generator| PDS
```

## Query Diagram

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    actor CoffeeTeaLover
    participant Bluesky
    participant Cloudflare as Cloudflare Worker
    participant Bluesky Search
    CoffeeTeaLover->>+Bluesky: get Coffee&Tea custom feed
    Bluesky->>+Cloudflare: get Coffee&Tea custom feed
    Cloudflare->>+Bluesky Search: search "coffee" and "tea"
    Bluesky Search->>+Cloudflare: posts matching "coffee" and "tea"
    Cloudflare->>+Bluesky: IDs of posts matching "coffee" and "tea"
    Bluesky->>+CoffeeTeaLover: posts for Coffee&Tea custom feed
```

## LICENSE

[2-Clause BSD](LICENSE)
